The Lord stood by me, gave me strength
to proclaim the message fully.
Well, good morning everybody.
I hope you guys have, uh, been
staying warm cuz today's cold and
then it's gonna be rainy, uh, this
later this afternoon, evening.
We're supposed to be going
to my son's Super Bowl.
Which is great, but it's supposed
to be raining, which is not great.
So I'm not looking forward to that.
So I'm trying to stay as warm as
possible until we have to get out there.
Um, of course I'll have lots of warm
clothes and they'll be out in the
rain, but I'm worried more about me.
I mean, cuz that's all that matters.
Right?
Um, if you have your Bibles
with you today, we're gonna be
in second Timothy chapter two.
Uh, we're gonna read, um, from verses
one through 13, but we covered two weeks.
Um, the first two verses, so we're not
gonna be covering those verses today.
Uh, it will be up on the screen as well.
If you don't have a Bible with you, um, I
encourage you to grab one on the way out.
If you did, do not have a Bible at all or
own one, would love for you to grab that.
If not, download the Bible app.
I'd love for you to do that.
That's something I use daily.
Um, but before we jump into this
text, something, I want to kinda
give you an eyes an update.
Um, many of you were here last
week, we had a family meeting.
Our family meetings are great because it's
an opportunity to just catch up, um, as
a, as a church, talk about the future,
talk about what God has been doing,
and encourage you guys on some things.
And so some of you may have heard
or may not have heard, we are
continuing to look at another space.
We're looking to transition out
and so continue to be praying for.
Space, Um, and talking with the Y
M C A, um, here on the west side.
And so we will see what God
continues to do in opening that door.
Um, but be praying with us cuz
we're hoping in the next month or
so we'll have some answers on that.
So really excited about that.
Um, so as we jump into today's
text, kinda wanna catch you up.
And what's been going on, um, in the text.
And so what we have learned is this
letter is from the Apostle Paul to
his true son in the faith Timothy.
And as we begin to talk about this
relationship, and, and you dive a little
bit deeper, uh, most believe Paul didn't
ever have a son and most believe that
Timothy's father was not a godly father.
And so if you look at these two,
it was a perfect match where Paul
fit the role model of a father.
Um, and Timothy fit the role of a son and
they had a tight, genuine relationship.
Well, Paul is writing this letter from
prison, um, and most believe this is
the last imprisonment before his death.
And so Timothy would know this
letter is coming from, um, a, a
place of, of what we would say is
a last willing statement, right?
The last things in which Paul
would share with Timothy Tim.
So that these words are important,
uh, not only for Timothy,
but I would say even for us.
So I'm hoping that as you, uh,
get, continue to dive into this,
um, week after week, that you
look at these words the same way.
And so we learned that Paul is writing
this letter to give some last words of
wisdom, and we talk about this, What's the
difference between knowledge and wisdom?
Wisdom is the right
application of knowledge.
Um, and, and I would say this,
that most of us probably know
more truths than we actually ob.
We follow.
I don't know if maybe you
don't agree with that.
I would agree with that.
I typically know more of what
I should be doing than what
I actually go out and live.
I remember hearing this statement that
it's not the truths we know, but it's the
truths we obey that make a difference.
And that's really where Paul is getting
at with Timothy is like, Hey, take
all these truths I've taught you.
And take them and teach them to others.
Live them out boldly.
Um, and I, I'm challenged by
this and I hope that you guys
have been challenged by this.
So I just wanna kind of catch you
up over the first chapter, Paul
opened up and he really just showed
his love and care for Timothy.
Uh, and then he reminded Timothy
because, Timothy was forgetful and were
forgetful, and so he reminded Timothy of
his faith and his gift so that Timothy
would be reminded that God was ready
to use him, that God was gifted him to
be the leader in the church there and
to be the leader after Paul had left.
So after he reminded him that he invited
him to join in on the suffering, we're
gonna continue that thought today.
But he invited Timothy at that
moment to join in, in the suffering.
And, and again, we're gonna
learn more about that.
But then he challenged him to keep
the truth, the word of God, right?
The truth, to hold onto
it and to protect it.
And then he challenged Timothy to
not only to protect that truth,
but to live that truth out.
And then last week, he challenged
Timothy to take all that.
To begin to commit it to faithful people,
faithful men who would teach other men
and faithful people who would teach
other people, and to continue this trend
to where we are today of so many people
that were faithful to keeping that truth.
That we have the word of God today,
that we have the truth today, that we
have a church today that now gets to
read about somebody who started this.
Right?
This is really cool how we see this.
Um, but then now we're going
to jump into this idea behind
where, where Paul challenges
Timothy to share in the suffering.
And so a question that I already
probably know the answer to here.
Who here enjoys suffering?
Anybody?
Hey, we got one back there.
Jonas enjoys suffering.
So there's always one in the
group that enjoys suffering.
What is suffering?
Suffering is the state of undergoing
pain, distress and hardship.
The state of undergoing
pain, distress, and hardship.
So who here is ever endured
pain, suffering, and hardship?
Great.
We're all in the same.
See, we all have experienced some form
of suffering in our lives, uh, and most
of us would say, We don't enjoy that.
But let me just ask this question.
Whoever has in here has endured
suffering, but on the other side
of that suffering was a reward.
Anybody?
Okay, a few of you.
What was it?
What was it again?
What was that birth of your first child?
Was that painful for you or your wife?
Both.
Okay.
It's good Helping through
somebody else with the same thing.
What else?
You ever endured suffering and
something good came out on the other?
See, I think of a couple of things.
One was, right, not me childbirth, but I
know my wife has said this, that the only
thing that got her through childbirth
was the beautiful baby on the other side.
Um, so suffering obviously
was worth it, right?
The other that I have
is, um, going to college.
I, I don't just want you to
know this, going to college,
I suffered like it was tough.
It was difficult, but in the
other side was a career and a
job and things like that, right?
Um, and then the other thing
I thought about is an athlete.
Someone who suffers for
the sake of winning.
And I just wanna give a shout out here.
So we had a soccer game yesterday and
Landon, which who's not in here, this
is Brian, um, Lauren's son, Landon.
This is eight, nine year
old soccer, by the way.
He was our goal at the last quarter.
Well, the team just kept
shooting shots on goal and.
He got beat up pretty bad.
Like the ball, I think hit
him in the head at one time.
He may have got kicked
in the head at one time.
And so here's what we said, like Landon
suffered so we could win the game.
We won the game, by the way, one Oh.
So we celebrate that.
But I start thinking about ath athletics,
like that idea behind we're willing
to suffer for something worthwhile.
Well, I know I, I'm kind of setting
this up today guys, but I want you
to look through this idea of suffer.
Like Paul's challenging Timothy, not
as something that we want to avoid,
but something we join for the sake
of the reward on the other side.
See, I'll just tell you that I can join
something like that because it's worth it.
I don't like suffering for no reason.
I don't think anybody does, right?
We would say we were willing
to suffer for a reason.
So as we jump into this, we're
gonna see three different
examples that Paul gives us.
So let's read it.
This text again, we're gonna be
in second Timothy chapter two.
We're gonna read from verse one
through 13 and it says this, You
therefore, my son, be strong in
the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
What you have heard from me and
the presence of many witnesses
commit to faithful men who will
be able to teach others also.
Share in the suffering as a
good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No one serving as a soldier gets entangled
in the concerns of the civilian life he
seeks to please the commanding officer.
Also, if anyone competes in ath as
an athlete, he is not crowned unless
he competes according to the rules.
The hardworking farmer ought to be
first to get a share of the crops.
Consider what I say for the Lord
will give you understanding in.
Remember Christ Jesus risen from the dead
and descended from David according to my
gospel, for which I suffer to the point
of being bound like a criminal criminal,
but the word of God is not bound.
This is why I endure all things
for the elect so that they may
also obtain salvation, which is
in Christ Jesus with eternal.
This saying is trustworthy
for if we died with him.
We also will live with him if we endure.
We will also reign with
him if we deny him.
He will also deny us and if we
are faithless, he remains faithful
for he cannot deny himself.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, that your
word, uh, brings truth in our lives,
Lord, that you use your word today, uh,
to open our hearts and minds, um, to
the truth in which we Lord, not just
need to know, but we need to continue
to apply to our lives, to live out.
Um, Lord, we love you and we
thank you for this time, and we
pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So the first thing that we see
is being a disciple of Jesus
requires faithfulness, right?
Faithfulness to Jesus though comes with a.
But a great reward.
So the first thing we see here is
this example of a soldier, right?
Uh, and the characteristics
of a good soldier.
So he uses this term the good soldier.
And so he says The characteristics
of a good soldier is one who
endures suffering, right?
We are
thinking, shouldn't life be easier?
Shouldn't life be easier?
Like, I mean, Jesus has paid for my sins.
Now I have a relationship with
him, the, the God of the universe.
Life should be easy, but at times though,
when, when we actually search God's word,
we, we see consistently over and over
many of the people who'd given their lives
to Christ actually suffered not just to
suffer for the sake of suffering, but to
suffer for something great and something.
And so we see this when we
look at a soldier, right?
A soldier enlists, knowing
that they will suffer.
But many times when they enlist
the enlisting part's, the easiest
part, signing paperwork, right?
Agreeing to some things,
but then the work starts.
Now, here's the thing.
They're a soldier at the moment of
signing the dotted line and reciting
whatever the commitment is to that.
But the work just starts.
So as Paul's talking about this idea
of a soldier, He's talking about this
idea of our commitment to Christ.
You know, that's secure.
We're secure in Christ, but the, the
mission of God for each one of us has
just began, and as we continue on, that
mission is for the rest of our lives.
So that first one, right, as a
characteristic of a soldier is to suffer.
But the second one is one
who avoids worldly things.
And you'll see this, um, it gets
says, share in the suffering is
a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
No one serving as a soldier gets
entangled with in the concerns of
the civilian life, but he seeks
to please the commanding officer.
So when a soldier fully commits,
To the army or to the, to the
enlistment in which he's committed to.
He's committed to the mission in front of,
and he cannot allow anything around him to
distract him from fulfilling that mission.
And I wish I had, uh, Joe in here.
Joe I know had served in the military
and there's probably more in here.
I just knew he had.
But I started thinking through this idea.
Whenever a soldier gets off course from
fulfilling his mission, he puts not only
his life, but the lives of others in.
You may not think of that.
I wanna continue to go back and
forth as a follower of Jesus.
His, He's challenging Timothy
and us to join in the suffering.
If we don't be faithful to
the mission, it's, it's not
necessarily about our lives, right?
Our salvation in the Lord is there.
But what about the lives
of those around us?
What's the mission that God has given us
to go there for and make disciples of all
nations to, to share Jesus with others
because God has so changed your life.
God has now called you with the gifts
that he's given you to go out and share
that hope and love with other people.
So when we get distracted by worldly
living, we are not fulfilling the
mission that God's called us, which now
puts other people's lives on the line.
And I know we can go a little bit deeper
into that, but I just started thinking
through why is Paul bringing this up?
And so he's bringing this up because
he says, Faithful soldiers, faithful
followers of Jesus are committed to the.
And I started thinking about this example.
I don't know why I chose this example.
Sometimes I'm just, I just wake
up middle of the night and I
just think of these things.
Think about a plumber who
goes to plumbing school.
I don't even know if there's
plumbing school, right?
They gonna get their plumbing certificate.
I don't know.
Maybe that's what it is too.
Okay.
They're gonna go to the number
one plumbing company in the world,
cuz that's where they wanna work.
They're the best, The number one plumbing
company in the world hires them to go plum
and be the greatest plumber in the world.
And every home he goes to, he
gets distracted by landscaping.
How stupid does that?
I mean, he went to school.
He's dedicated his life.
He's committed to this job, to do this
job, and he's distracted by landscaping.
How long would he keep that job?
Probably not very long because
what he said he was committed to,
he didn't really follow through
on what he committed his life to.
He didn't follow through on, I know
that's crazy weird example, because this
is where Paul's challenging Timothy.
Right.
We're not working.
I wanna be clear.
We're not working for our salvation.
We're working from our salvation
because we've experienced Christ's love.
We are so motivated to go help
fulfill the mission that God has is
to redeem the world, to save them from
their sins just like he's saved us.
And so I wanna make
sure I'm clear as well.
This does not mean we can't enjoy.
Does this mean we have to hate
life and can't enjoy anything?
Great.
No, that's actually not what he is.
He's saying here, we can enjoy
life, our family, the things
around us in this world, but
they cannot become a distraction.
That's what he says here.
They do not get entangled in
the ways right of the world and
allows that to distract them
from the mission that they have.
And I think this is a challenge from Paul
and a challenge to us before we move.
That entanglement.
Sometimes when we get entangled in things,
we're missing God's best for our life
and for the lives of those around us.
And when we'll choose God's mission, we
will experience a greater blessing, we'll
experience a greater fulfillment in life.
I, I think back to this,
and I can only give personal
examples, I think back to this.
There was a moment in my
life I was working as a
financial analyst in Oklahoma.
We were serving in the church and God
had led me to surrender my life to.
An opportunity opened up to go from
a financial analyst to be basically
a ministry assistant at a church, and
God called me to that and in order
to go fulfill that, I remember me and
Brittany having this conversation of
all the things we're going to have
to sacrifice in order to go fulfill
the call that God had in my life.
We chose to do that and it was difficult.
There were seasons of
difficulty, but the reward.
The lives in which we got to impact
the things that God had shown us.
And, and crazy enough, fast forward, you
know, 10, 12 years were here, God has done
way more through suffering and sacrifice
than he ever would've done through ease
of just staying there, comfortable.
I mean, here's the thing guys.
I just gotten a big raise
and a big promotion.
It was easy to stay.
We would've had great healthcare.
We wouldn't have to wonder about that.
I mean, there was a lot of benefits of.
But the call, the challenge for me
now, again, that's not the challenge
for everybody to, to go quit their
jobs and go to ministry, but God's
got a call for each one of us.
And when we're seeking the Lord,
God's gonna call us to sacrifice
and, and to suffer at times
for the sake of the mission.
And the cool part we're gonna see
throughout this whole story is guys
the reward to see life change and
to experience what God is doing.
Oh man.
Like way, way more worth it than
what we would've experienced from.
So let's look at the second
example he gives here, right?
The first one was a soldier, right?
So faithfulness to Jesus comes
with the cost, but a great reward.
The second one is this athlete.
And so he says this in verse five.
He says, Also, if anyone competes
as an athlete, he has crowned.
He's not crowned unless he
competes according to the rules.
So in Paul's time, athletes, you
know, that's a big deal, right?
They had, uh, the, the Olympic Games, they
had all these different sports that they
did and a lot of activities that they did.
And, and what I learned is
that really they're not much
more different than us, right?
Not much more different than us.
Who here is gonna go home?
Not all of us will, but who here
is gonna go home and watch them?
Football?
Anybody?
Okay, great.
We got a couple of you who, who
went, you know, to some soccer
games in the last couple weeks.
I know there's a couple families that
love soccer around here, and I do know
this, there was some volleyball tryouts.
So you guys, So I, there's a wide
variety of people that love sports.
We are a culture of sports right here
in, uh, in our area at least, right?
So things have not changed.
But when we look at this idea of
sports and we think about rules
in Paul's time, athletes had
to be a citizen of the nation.
They had to be of good reputation.
And, uh, most of you probably know this,
that even though some people win the race,
they get the crown strip from the anybody
knows Some examples of where somebody won
a race and then now they don't have that.
Lance Armstrong, right?
He got all of those things.
There's a, there's a
lot of those examples.
So he's pointing to this idea behind
the requirements that it takes or
the the rules in which are to be
followed in order to receive the.
Um, and so when we think about follow
rules, I don't know about you guys, but
as a kid I hated being a rule follower.
It's like this idea behind all these
strict things I gotta do and not do.
Of course, I'm a people pleaser, so I
would do them so that I could please
people, but there's all these rules.
Well, Paul's not talking about this as
like, Okay, let's go grab the law and
let's make sure we follow it to a T.
But what he was really talking to and
what, why this book is important is Paul's
talking about Timothy running the race.
With truth, right?
Recently we talked about how Timothy was
told to hold onto and protect the truth.
So to follow the rules is to follow
the truth and to not stray from it.
Cuz if you stray from it, then it is
not going to receive the crown that
God has has given us or given Timothy.
And so when he is saying this, that
Timothy needs to be faithful to follow the
rules so that he can be crowned, so that
we can be crowned so that he can win the.
And so Paul was unwilling to change the
message and that unwilling to change
the message, Paul was sent to prison and
was gonna eventually die for his faith.
Timothy is sitting here watching
his true father in the faith
eventually be killed for his faith.
And Timothy would be wondering,
What if I stray a little bit again?
Athletes, why do they choose to cheat?
Because if that gives them an edge to
win the crown, like what if I do this?
Will I ever get caught?
Will will it change anything?
Will it make life easier?
And, and for Timothy, he
could be thinking that.
And so Paul is saying,
Hold on to the truth.
Don't veer off.
Right.
So Paul was viewed as a loser to most
around him, but the one who would
judge him, Jesus would see him as
some someone who followed the rules.
And so he eventually would win the race.
And so Paul's challenged to Timothy
and to us in this point is our goal,
uh, and our walks as followers of Jesus
is to not please man, but to please.
And it's a good reminder for us
in the midst of pleasing God is
that as we do that, you'll have
to say no to certain things.
You'll have to have
difficult conversations.
You'll have to choose at chi
times a difficult situation,
But the reward is greater.
The reward is greater
when we follow the rules.
We follow what God has
called us to do in His word.
Cuz his word is truth.
And I always think of John
17, 17, God's word is truth.
And if God's word is truth, then that's
what we have to use as a guide in our
life and a guide as we direct our church
and as guide, as we direct our families.
So then he moves on, right?
He moves on from an athlete to a farmer.
And the farmer part really sticks
out, sticks out to me recently,
and I wanna read these verses here
because he says this and he says, The
hardworking farmer ought to be the
first one to get the share of the crops.
And I saw this word, the hardworking
farmer, not just a farmer.
Anybody ever seen a farmer
and a hardworking farmer?
I, I think that you can't separate those
two because if you're gonna have a farm,
you're gonna have to be a hard worker.
And if you don't, you
wanna have a farm long.
Um, most people work from, you know,
daylight to sundown basically, right?
They're working.
And so he says this hardworking farmer.
And so when we think about a farmer,
they plow, they sow and they water.
But there's a part to me in the
farming that stuck out to me.
It's the patience and waiting.
Who likes waiting?
That's why we have fast food.
We don't have to wait.
Right?
Um, and that's what we think about
this patience is it was difficult.
And so whenever we look at this,
Paul is clearly telling Timothy and.
That we are to work hard, not for
our salvations, but for the Lord
and willing to fill our call and
what God has called us to do.
And we will receive a share of
the crops and the reward first.
And so let's look at what it means, right?
How so?
What rewards does someone
receive in working hard?
For the Lord.
Number one, you receive salvation
just through obviously faith in
Jesus, but it's the reward of stories.
It's the reward of life change around you.
So anybody here ever been a part of
somebody else coming to faith in Christ?
Anybody.
Okay.
A couple people.
You've been a part of their journey.
Is there a sense inside you that,
of a fulfillment of, of something
greater that God would even
use you to be a part of that?
I would agree with that.
And, and if you haven't experienced
that, my, my challenge for you is
begin to pray right now for God
to put somebody on your heart.
Begin to share with them.
And when you see people give their lives
to Christ, when you see people begin to
understand the truth of God's word, apply
it to their lives, that transformation
you getting to be a part of that is
amazing because the, the hard work and
the sacrifice that it takes to, to invest
in that person and to see life change.
It's worth it.
And that's really where we're seeing
here is this hard work that happens in
the midst of following Jesus, right?
Followers of Jesus who suffer,
put in the hard work, will enjoy
the fruits of their labor first.
But here's what we know is that sometimes
farming, there's disappointments.
Anybody ever heard about that, right?
Yeah.
You do all the hard work
and it doesn't rain.
It doesn't.
I, I know some people that's done all
the hard work and then they had high
fences and the deer still jumped over the
fences and ate all their crops, right?
No.
Sometimes you put on hard work
and it just doesn't come out.
And this is where we realize that the
trusting factor of Jesus, that he is
the one that brings the harvest that
we are to put in the work, right?
I wanna give you guys an example here.
They're gonna throw up some
pictures here of my house.
We recently, uh, built a
house on the west side.
And the ground was horrible.
So you see on the left
side, this is not our house.
The ground was that
horrible ground over there.
And so I, James isn't here, but
James actually brought over dirt,
a ton of dirt, um, was a week ago.
And, uh, our family hand laid this
dirt by ourselves laying it all out.
Well, in the midst of doing that,
I really appreciated, um, machinery
that can do that in about two hours.
And we did it in.
14.
Um, and then the effects of it, there
was some suffering that came in this.
The effects of it was Monday morning
I woke up with vertigo a and to come
to figure out, it was from all the
tension in my shoulders and my neck from
shoveling and I suffered all Monday.
I've never experienced that before, but
I don't ever wanna experience it again.
Um, and so in the midst of doing
this, I kind of had this image
of like, farming is difficult.
Farming is difficult.
It's hard work.
It costs a lot of money, right?
Uh, it it, it took a lot of work
to lay out everything and, and
here's the thing that was just dirt.
We haven't even seen the grass
yet, but I'll tell you this.
Just, just wanna lean
into this a little bit.
When the first sprout comes,
you know what I'm gonna do?
I'm gonna probably be texting
people, pictures, . What do we do?
We celebrate hard work.
For the Lord is not for our salvations,
but from our salvations we've experienced
so much that we want others to experience
that, so we're willing to put in the work.
And here's my prayer, when spring comes,
we're gonna start seeing some sprouts.
And when it does you, you don't wanna
know who I'm gonna be able to thank.
Not just just myself for
the hard work, but the Lord.
You wanna know why?
Because the Lord's the one that brings
the rain and the sun and the nutrients.
I can't do that.
God can now, man, we can do water.
I guess we can do that.
But then God provided the water, right?
But in the end essence, I just saw
this picture where we put in the
hard work unto the Lord and we've
gotta let the Lord bring the harvest.
But then I started thinking here because
hey, everybody knows here, we're a
church plant year and a half in since
launching, uh, we've been here for
almost three years, and I'll just tell
you, three years of planting a church
since we've moved here, it's difficult.
Right, but, But we've seen
a church go from six to 60.
There's been a lot of life change.
Every one of you that are here, I've
seen so many amazing things happen in
your life over these seasons and my
prayers that will continue to see those.
And the hard work and labor that we
poured into it is not in vain, cuz I
know it's not in vain because God has
been working and will continue to work.
And when we continue to see that,
that God through our hard work, not
for ourselves, but for His glory
and for others, it's worth it.
But it's going to take,
this is the whole picture.
It's gonna take some suffering.
And, and, and if you think back to what
is suffering, it's not fun at times.
Right.
We may suffer as a soldier.
Was following the Lord despite
what's going on around us.
It may be the athlete that's trying
to win the race, and we were trying
to follow by the rules, the truth, the
word of God, but it also might be the
farmer that has to get your hands dirty.
I'll just tell you this, I
had so much dirt in my ears.
I think that may be why I had rodeo two.
I had so much dirt in my ears.
You may spend days getting
that out, but it's worth it.
It's worth.
Why is it worth it?
This is the part that I,
I, I want us to lean into.
Verses eight through 13,
The reason for suffering.
The reason for suffering is because
Jesus', death, barrel, and resurrection
was for everyone, not just us.
So let's read this text.
He says, Remember and I love, if
you'll go through the Bible in
a year with your physical Bible
and underline the word, remember.
You'll be amazed at how many
times it's in the Bible.
I don't know how many
times, but I did that.
And in my Bible, I have the word,
remember underlined in every
part of the Bible because I just
saw it as an impactful word.
And so Paul is saying, Remember
Jesus Christ risen from the dead
and descended from David according
to my gospel for which I suffer.
So Paul has already suffered to the point
of being bound like a criminal criminal,
but the word of God is not bound.
And this is why I.
All thanks for the elect so that they
also may obtain salvation, which is
in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
Paul said I suffered for
the sake of other people.
Paul already knew that he would
spend an eternity with God.
Paul already knew that
his sins were forgiven.
Paul already knew that he was taken care.
And he understood this picture that
Christ Jesus came into the world to
save sinners, not just to save Paul.
And I'll just tell you, when we go
back up to the soldier, we tend to
be the soldier that gets distracted
because we begin to live out of faith.
That is Christ.
Jesus died for my sins, my comfort,
my plans, my safety, and no one else.
Now you wouldn't say
that, just so you know.
I wouldn't say that either,
but sometimes my life trends.
And why do we have the word of God
to correct us, to draw us back?
This is all who Christ died for.
We could leave out here
and celebrate and be done.
But God is not done.
And this is why Paul says
he's endured everything.
This is why he's challenging
us to endure all things.
So it's challenge to Timothy and
to us, And here's just an example.
God has saved you from a burning bishop,
bur burning, bush, burning, uh, building.
If you've given your life to Christ, God
has saved you from that burning building.
But here's the crazy part that he's doing.
He's sending you right back in.
To be a part of saving someone else is,
is there a chance you're gonna get burned?
Yeah, but I've, I've
quoted this to you before.
True friends and I'll, maybe you would
say this, true followers are Christ,
are those who are running in when
everybody else is running out, right?
I'm telling you, as a faller
of Jesus, it's gonna take you
running into burning buildings.
It's gonna take you,
sacrificing your time.
sacrificing your money.
It's gonna take you sacrificing.
Just so you know, this
is difficult for me.
My.
My uncomfortableness, which means this
at times, talking about Jesus to people,
even as a pastor, gets uncomfortable.
Why?
Because people look at you funny.
Why do you kid admit your
life to go follow Jesus?
Because he's a pretty cool dude.
He's changed my life.
They're like, Well,
that doesn't make sense.
Well, then I start telling
him my story, right?
All these things may be difficult,
but Paul shows us as an example of why
he did it, and Jesus was our first.
So we were saved from our brokenness
and sin from an eternity separated from
God, so that we could be sent out to
help others from their brokenness and
sin from an eternity separated from God.
There will be suffering in order to
help people, but it's worth it to
experience the joy of seeing more
and more people come to know Jesus.
And then he says this, this,
uh, uh, saying is trustworthy
in versus 13 or 11 through 13.
He says, This saying is trustworthy for
if and I I, I guess if you ever see the
word, if this is our choice, this is our
choice for if we died with him, right?
So if we died with him in our sins,
we repented and believed, then we will
also live with him now in an eternity.
We'll also live with
him now in an eternity.
And if we endure.
We will also reign with him.
That word endure is to suffer.
If we suffer, we will be able
to reign with him in heaven.
But then he says this, If we
deny him, he will also deny us.
There's times that when we look at God
and we're like, Well, how dare he deny me?
Here's, here's what he's offered is if,
if you'll have faith in him, he, he,
he's not going to deny you, but if you
deny him, you deny who he is, why he
came, that you have brokenness and sin
in your life, then he will deny you.
At the end of time, all of us will be
judged and he will deny you, not because
of his choice, but because of yours.
But then he says this, He says, Then
also if you're faithless, he remains
faithful and he cannot deny himself.
What he is saying here is that
at times we struggle with faith.
At times we struggle to be
faithful to God, but God is
not faithless in those moments.
He's still there.
He's still remains faithful to
you, always willing to forgive you,
always willing to be present in
the midst of suffering with you.
He does not leave you there nor forsake.
Jay Hudson Taylor.
This will be my last statement and I'm
gonna kind of close here, but Jay Hudson
Taylor said this, it is not by trying
to be faithful, but in looking to the
faithful one that we win the victory.
It is not trying to be faithful, but
looking to the faithful one that we
will win the victory as a disciple and
follower of Jesus faithfulness DI comes
with the cost, but the reward is great.
Jesus Christ came to this world,
not to just save you, not to just
save me, not for us just to meet
here on a Sunday morning guest.
So here's what I'll tell you this.
I love Sunday mornings.
You wanna know why?
Because you guys are here.
I like hanging out with you.
I like seeing the word of God.
I like being able to
praise Jesus together.
But God has called us together
to dive into his word, to send us
out into the world, not to judge
them, but to help them be saved.
From their sins, from their brokenness.
And Paul's last request to Timothy was
to take everything that he had stewarded.
Well.
The message of the gospel had to hold fast
and strong to it and to continue that on.
And that is Paul's challenge to us today.
Hold fast to the word of God and the
message of God and suffer alongside him.
Church, here's my challenge to you.
I believe God has brought this word.
I believe it's all time.
If you don't believe that, if you ever
study your word in the morning or, or
it's you hear some song on the radio
or it's a Sunday morning message and
you don't think that that's divinely
by God, I, I, I, you're missing it.
God has divined this
text for us as a church.
Now it is time to join
in on the suffering.
Why?
Because there are people waiting for
us on the other side of our obedience.
Amen.
Let's not leave him waiting.
So what's it gonna take?
We need to suffer like a soldier.
We need to race like an athlete.
We need to labor like a farmer
to see God's kingdom expanded
during this time of invitation.
Here's my challenge for you.
First of all, this is
where it always starts.
If you try doing without being in Christ,
you're doing for the wrong reasons.
Christ Jesus is the one, and this
is why I wanna mention this before
we move on through invitation.
He says his grace has been given to
us through salvation to provide the
power to accomplish the tasks at hand.
So when we are trying to work for
our salvation, we are missing it.
Christ Jesus has done
that on the cross for us.
So if you haven't given your
life to him today, you can.
You can give your life to Jesus
every time during an invitation.
I stand in the back because I
don't want you to feel like you
have to come all the way up front.
I want you to be able to come back
there and have a conversation.
If you have a question about to
follow Jesus and how to give your
life to Jesus, that's where it starts.
If you need prayer, come
back there and see me.
I would love to pray with you as well.
But for those of you who have given
your life to Christ, here's my c.
If you an invitation,
don't just sit there.
I would love for you to just ask
the Lord this question where, Lord,
are you asking me to suffer more
for, for the sake of the gospel?
And that is a challenging
question to ask the Lord.
Where are you asking me to suffer more?
You know what?
That's gonna take surrender.
Because if you're not willing to
surrender, you know that one area,
Lord, like you'll say everywhere, but.
Maybe it's your time everywhere, but
here, maybe it's your finances everywhere,
but here, maybe it's my, my, uh, pride.
Lay that down before the Lord and
ask the Lord to help you overcome
that, not just for your sake, but
for the sake of those around you.
God loves you so much, but he also loves
your friends, your neighbors, your family
members so much as well as a church.
I wanna challenge you with.
We exist to inspire hope by helping
people discover God's purpose for their
life through a relationship with Jesus.
Every person in this room has a
purpose by God to help other people
know him, and it'll only happen
through relationship with Jesus.
Come to Jesus, Surrender wherever
you're struggling, to surrender your
life to him, and we'll go outta here.
Change.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, thank you so much
for who you are and how your
word reminds us of the truth.
Lord that you have given
us as a guide to follow.
So Lord, as we run this race, to follow
in such a way that we don't lead people
astray or lead our lives astray, but
God, I just pray that as we look as, as
at this example from Paul's challenge
to Timothy, to joining him, uh, with
him and the suffering, God, I can't help
but see that you are asking us the same.
As a church, as individuals in this
room to join in on the suffering.
Not to just suffer for the sake of
suffering, but to suffer for a good cause.
So, Lord, I pray that as we join in
on that in the days and weeks ahead,
Lord, I pray that you are honored, Lord,
that your kingdom is expanded, that
we get to experience the first fruits
of it, the joy of seeing lives trans.
Lord, maybe it's even getting to enjoy
the first fruits, Lord of salvation.
If there's someone in this room
that hasn't given their lives
to you, God, we thank you for
this church, for these people.
Um, and Lord, we're just praying
for all of us to leave outta here.
Change today because of your word.
So we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So we encourage you to just
meditate for a few minutes.